---
layout: post
title: Finding Peace in a Fast Changing World
feature-img: "img/post_img/terrarium.jpg"
---
<!--This is an example of a post which includes a feature image specified in the front matter of the post. The feature image spans the full-width of the page, and is shown with the title on permalink pages.-->
*This article is food for thought for those who feel stressed all the time, and has little to do with technology.*


There is something about our world that seems wrong, gone are the days that building something to last was the goal. We change our world like we change our trends or our relationship statuses because we get bored or theres something new and better. We blame our need for change on our short attention spans. We blame short attention spans on technology and pop culture, 10 second photos or videos have become a representation of our life.

Take it from a person with diagnosed ADD, we forgot to stop and smell the flowers. instead we speed right by them in our cars on our way to work, trying to finish early, so we can meet our friends who also forgot to stop and see the change that is constantly happening. I used to be like that, the underlying motive, or the drive that starved me was fear. Fear that life was too short and boring, that I had to experience everything before my short lifespan was over, but work, obligations, and people were holding me back. By living in a fast pace environment we feel like we're dying faster, which only feeds into our fear of missing out (FOMO). Don't even get me into the pathology of FOMO and how toxic it can be to your life.  I've since learned that life is not that short, and we don't have to force change to happen because it's constantly happening. We just have to know where to look.

I found peace when I stopped to smell the dying flowers that I had bought at my local food market for $2. I bought dying flowers because every plant I bought died in my care, and I was determined to keep this one alive. I researched, prepared and cared for a mini Phalaenopsis (moth orchid) and all I could do after treating it was wait. At first the wait was unbearable, I remember sitting there staring and stressing because I couldn't tell if I had made any progress. I continued to regularly inspect the changes for the next few days but the existing flowers continue to wither. once all the flowers withered I gave up hope and left it to die thinking I just can't have plants. then a week later, I came home from work to see that my mini orchid has begun to sprout new leaves and new roots. seeing the brand new green appendages gave a satisfaction I don't receive to often. Watching that orchid come back from death and continue to grow filled me with such positivity that something about me changed that day. It began to give me the daily change I never knew I wanted or needed, and made life interesting. I had somehow found peace in life because of one plant's daily growth.

You see by caring for my plant I've subconsciously learned how to meditate, clear my thoughts of all the static noise by waiting and breathing. I've learned to focus on growth the change that really mattered, instead of focusing on a chaotic and forceful change such as the wilting flowers. Knowing now that positive growth is constantly happening because of my actions regardless of appearances really comforts that fear I held on to. "what doesn't kill you makes you stronger." It's always been true but we forget it because appearances blind us. We force chaos on the world by switching things up so fast that we forget how to stop and appreciate natural growth as time moves forward. At least for me I forgot somewhere along the way; I don't think I'll ever forget this story's lesson. I guess it helps that I can see the positive change physically in a little clay pot on my desk.

Then I discovered what a closed terrarium was. To build something that has potential to grow forever with precise planning and execution... Now life's gotten really interesting.
